Here is my new Shiny app, **Mapping the Minnesota Midterms of 2022**! In this app, you can view county-level results of the 2022 statewide elections in Minnesota, and view precinct-level results of the concurrent state legislative elections. This could be useful for election geeks interested in an all-in-one MN elections hub (so, myself). Folks working in politics could also use it to see what precincts would be especially worth canvassing -- though I'm not sure I'd want them to use it for that...

This app is [available online](https://mcgow241.shinyapps.io/minnesota-midterms/)! This repository is only for those who want to see under the hood. My app primarily uses data from the MN Secretary of State's website, though data from the MN legislature's website is also used, and I scraped a couple pages on the Ballotpedia website as well. Shapefiles for the counties of Minnesota were found online. I probably should have kept a link to that source - oops. I could certainly hunt down the source if it were necessary.

The main features of this app are **maps** and **tables**. On the statewide elections tab, the user can select an office and see a Leaflet map with hover-able counties, alongside a table with each candidate's total performance. On the state senate and state house tabs, the user can choose a district and see similar products, though instead of hover-able counties, the map has hover-able precincts. If the user is only interested in metro districts, they can click a button to limit their choices to only metro districts -- and likewise for nonmetro districts. Lastly, the user can type in a city name and find out what district(s) that city is located in.

The most difficult part of this project was mapping -- for the sole reason that I started out by using the `ggmap` package instead of Leaflet. To be honest, I prefer the simpler look of `ggmap` in some ways, but Leaflet is easier to use. I had NO idea how I would use `ggmap` for the state legislative districts, since those don't align nicely with county boundaries, but with Leaflet I didn't need to worry about that. Aside from mapping, there were just lots of little problems I needed to chop down every time I added a feature, since I wanted this app to look as sleek and mistake-proof as possible. And I relived my preteen days of making a cringy homepage by applying CSS to the app!

This app will **not** remain a relic of this course. The day after in-class presentations, I added the city search feature, despite knowing that I already had plenty of content in the app. Once finals relinquish their hold on me and I have some time on my hands, I plan to add a tab for congressional district results. And I might even make a second app to map the Iowa midterms...
